---
layout: post
title: Kivy
---
### Python Library ###

## Great Developers (GD) Entry Task ##

**Day 1:**

On Saturday, I send a mail "Re-entry task" to the H.S.Rai sir and after discussing the motive of the joining the Great Developers
group, finally I recieve the mail of sir in which sir told me the entry task of the GD which is "Introduce kivy by making a making a app 
which remind a patient to take medicine and keep record of medicine missed, or taken early or delayed". I was very happy. And start reading about the kivy and its features. 

**Day 2:**

Second day i.e Sunday I was little busy for preparing the aptitude of placements.

**Day 3:**

On Monday, I had spend my whole day in the college due to placement drive of Sapient and after that I intall the kivy on my system and create a simple app [Hello World App ](https://gist.githubusercontent.com/Rupinderwadali/1a1bacc648db34496dde7f6d0c92e554/raw/2d77ae0ff485d0da5fc811ebc73fd8301905de63/main.py) but when I run the application it did not show any output and I also did not understand the error. After google I found that it might be dependency error and again install kivy & now the same code is working fine. Then I understand the code and read some tutorials of kivy.

## Command for installing the kivy on ubuntu systems ##

Add the ppa

      sudo add-apt-repository ppa:kivy-team/kivy

Update the package list

      sudo apt-get update
      
Python-kivy for python
      
      sudo apt-get install python-kivy
      
**Day 4:**

Next day again busy due to placement drive of "Code brews labs" and I had spend my whole day in the college. When I came to the hostel I completed my major project synopsis and a presentation. I read the post from the facebook that I got selected in the "Code brews Labs" I was very existed. I was not felling well to continue the task of kivy, I tried but I did not understand so I set the alarm at 5:30 am and go to the bed.

**Day 5:**

I continue the task of kivy as I did not know anything about the python and kivy is the library of python. So firstly I read a little bit about the python then start reading the kivy documentation. Then I went to the college and same schedule attending the lectutes and submit my synopsis and giving the presentation and viva of the synopsis. After that when I came back to the hostel I continue the task of kivy and read documentation and the architecture of kivy. I watch some of the [videos](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CYNWK2GpwgA&list=PLQVvvaa0QuDe_l6XiJ40yGTEqIKugAdTy&index=1) on the internet about kivy and make the simple apps of different modules while learning the different modules. I cover the modules like Kv Design Language, Events, Widgets, Layouts etc.


**Day 6:**

Today me and my friends celebrate the birthday of my friend and organised a surprise birthday party for my friend. So I spend the whole day with my friend and when I came back I felt so tired but as per the schedule, my work is not complete so I open my laptop and start working on it. Firstly I complete my blogs and then again continue the task of the kivy like Widgets, kv language etc.

The introduction of the kivy with the example of different modules is done but the work of the app is not completed it yet :(. Like the Store data in database is still pending so need a little bit more time :P. And while discussing this with my friend he give me suggestion about to extend this app using the following feature:

1. Add the description of the medicine with the symptoms so that the patient will get the resulted medicine when he search about the symptoms.
2. Add the email for sending the detail of the missed or delayed doze (like send a mail to the mom that he/she did not take his/her medicine on time :P).

